Asking the Right Questions.

The first step in any process is to define what it is you are trying to tackle.

What is the problem that needs to be addressed, or the opportunity that needs to be ascertained.

Without this, you won't have a clear goal in mind, or know when you've solved your problem. An example question is, how can sales figures and call center logs be combined to evaluate a new product, or in a manufacturing process, how can data from multiple sensors in an instrument be used to detect instrument failure? How can we understand our customers and market better to achieve effective target marketing? Next you need to assess the situation with respect to the problem or the opportunity you have defined. This is a step where you need to exercise caution analyzing risks, costs, benefits, contingencies, regulations, resources and requirements of the situation. **What are the requirements of the problem? What are the assumptions and constraints? What resources are available? This is in terms of both personnel and capital, such as computer systems, instruments etc. What are the main costs associated with this project? What are the potential benefits? What risks are there in pursuing the project? What are the contingencies to potential risks, and so on?** Answers to these questions will help you get a better overview of the situation. And better understanding of what the project involves. Then you need to define your goals and objectives, based on the answers to these questions. Defining success criteria is also very important. **What do you hope to achieve by the end of this project?** Having clear goals and and success criteria will help you to assess the project throughout its life cycle. Once you know the problem you want to address and understand the constraints and goals, then you can formulate the plan to come up with the answer, that is the solution to your business problem. As a summary, defining the questions you're looking to find answers for is a huge factor contributing to the success of a data science project.

By following the explained set of steps, you can formulate better questions to solve using analytical skills and link them to business value.